Now, if we're going to be successful in not letting Satan or his world mold our thinking,
we have to avoid inhaling the spirit of the world.
So let's discuss the theme, avoid inhaling the toxic spirit of this world.
Just as Jehovah God and Satan the devil are diametrically opposed, totally opposite,
holy spirit and the spirit of the world are totally opposite.
But interestingly, both of these are invisible active forces that motivate people to act
a certain way.
Now, on the one hand, the Holy Spirit motivates them to act the way Jehovah wants them to
act, to produce the fruitage of the Holy Spirit.
Love, joy, peace, patience, and so forth.
On the other hand, the spirit of the world motivates people to act like Satan wants them
to act, to produce the works of the flesh, sexual immorality, uncleanness, brazen conduct,
and so forth.
But it's also interesting that both of these invisible active forces can be likened to
air that can be inhaled.
Now regarding the Holy Spirit, here's what the Insight book says regarding how Jehovah
inspired the Bible writers, the expression inspired of God at 2 Timothy 316 is translated
from a Greek phrase meaning God breathed by breathing on fateful men, God caused the
spirit to become operative upon them.
While figuratively speaking, the Holy Spirit can be likened to air that is breathed by
Jehovah, inhaled by people that love him.
But now, what about the spirit of the world?
How is it that it can be likened to air?
We'll open up to Ephesians, please, chapter 2, and notice what is stated here in verse
number 2.
Our exorcist read 1 and 2, and here Paul is talking to ones who had come out of Satan's
world.
Furthermore, God made you alive, though you were dead in your trespasses and sins, in
which you at one time walked according to the system of things of this world.
Now notice, according to the ruler of the authority of the air, the spirit that is now
at work in the sons of disobedience.
So notice this expression, air.
What is this air?
Well, I've been explained in our publications, it's the very same thing, as mentioned in
1 Corinthians chapter 2, verse 12, is the spirit of the world.
Who is the source of this spirit of the world?
And who controls it?
Well, obviously we read there, the ruler of it, Satan the devil.
How does it make people at?
It makes them sons of disobedience.
They become very disobedient to Jehovah.
But figuratively speaking, the spirit of the world can be likened to air that is breathed
from Satan and inhaled by people of this world.
But how different, how opposite the composition of these two airs.
Now one of them is fresh, clean, unpolluted life-giving, the other poisonous, toxic,
venomous, deadly.
In fact, we could liken the Holy Spirit to pure wholesome oxygen, whereas the spirit of
the world could be likened to deadly carbon monoxide.
In fact, let's pursue this illustration a little further.
Let's talk about some similarities between the spirit of the world and carbon monoxide.
Now here's one similarity.
It relates to toxicity.
Carbon monoxide is extremely poisonous gas, is a poisonous gas present in exhaust of
internal combustion engines and furnaces.
Well we mentioned before, the spirit of the world is a poisonous air, exhale from Satan.
Here's another similarity.
This relates to the insidiousness or the sneakyness of them.
Carbon monoxide is colorless, odorless, tasteless.
Therefore people breathing it, usually fall asleep without even realizing they're being
poisoned.
Well what about spirit of the world?
It can't be seen smelled or tasted with the literal senses.
Thus the poisoning can be gradual, insidious, again with a victim not even being aware of
what is happening.
Well let's get a third similarity.
This relates to modus operandi or method of killing.
Carbon monoxide kills a person by attaching itself to the hemoglobin of the blood.
Now as you know the hemoglobin is responsible to transport oxygen through the body.
But little by little the carbon monoxide pushes out the oxygen, attaches itself to the hemoglobin,
thus reducing the ability of the hemoglobin to transport oxygen to the heart and to other
parts of the body.
And of course without oxygen soon a person dies.
Well what about spirit of the world poisoning?
Little by little it can cause a person to act in a way that pushes out, greased Jehovah's
oxygen like holy spirit.
And finally this can result in spiritual asphyxiation and death.
Well let's get a fourth similarity.
This relates to symptoms.
Symptoms of carbon monoxide poisoning include headache, weakness, dizziness, nausea,
fainting, weak pulse, and finally coma.
What about symptoms of spirit of the world poisoning?
Well advanced symptoms we mentioned before are shocking works of the flesh.
But what about earlier symptoms?
Earlier manifestations.
Well it's interesting in the reasoning book there's quite a list of some of these symptoms.
But here's just for an example, here are three, manifesting a rebellious attitude toward
authority, allowing one's life to be dominated by the desire to possess what one sees.
Showing off one's possessions and supposed attainments.
Well let's get one more similarity and this relates to treatment.
For carbon monoxide poisoning includes administration of oxygen sometimes under high pressure.
The Mayo Clinic website describes how a person in the emergency room will breathe pure
oxygen by means of a mask that is placed over their nose and mouth.
And if they can't breathe on their own, a ventilator will breathe for them.
But also quite often it explains the person needs hyperbaric oxygen therapy.
That's where they're put in a chamber where they breathe pure oxygen but it's under pressure
two or three times greater than normal.
And that speeds up the replacement of the carbon monoxide with the oxygen.
Well what about treatment for spirit of the world poisoning?
Again, oxygen therapy is needed.
We're doubling of one's efforts to receive more oxygen like Holy Spirit.
How do we do that?
Well of course avoiding any conduct that would be grieving, Jova spirit, unclean entertainment,
unhoath some thinking, but also vigorously pursuing conduct that would put one in line
to receive Holy Spirit, engaging in the ministry, praying for Holy Spirit, study and meditation
of God's word, associating with others who have the spirit of God resting upon them.
So there we have five similarities between the spirit of the world and carbon monoxide.
In review, they're both very toxic to they're both very insidious, very sneaky.
Three, they both kill by oxygen deprivation, one literal, the other figurative oxygen.
Or both have early and advanced symptoms.
Five, they're both treated with oxygen therapy, a literal or figurative.
Open up please to 1 John chapter 2 and how we long for this scripture to be fulfilled.
1 John chapter 2 verse 17.
Furthermore, the world is passing away and so is it's desire.
But the one who does the will of God remains forever.
So notice, not only will the world pass away, it's desire will pass away, it's collective
desire to be disobedient to Jova.
Now why is it going to pass away because the spirit of the world will be gone and no longer
able to motivate that rebellious desire towards Johova.
And why will the spirit of the world be gone?
Because Satan the devil will no longer be able to breathe it from his death like confinement
in the abyss.
We can say the abyss will be airtight.
You'll not be able to excel it from there.
And then, to Johova's praise, the only invisible active force that will permeate the earth
and motivate humans will be the pure, oxygen-like Holy Spirit.
But until that marvelous time may all of us do all within our power to avoid inhaling
the carbon monoxide-like Satan-breathe spirit of this world.